# Passport-HTTP-Token

HTTP Token authentication strategy for [Passport](https://github.com/jaredhanson/passport).

This module lets you authenticate HTTP requests using bearer tokens in your
Node.js applications.  Bearer tokens are typically used protect API endpoints,
and are often issued using OAuth 2.0.

By plugging into Passport, bearer token support can be easily and unobtrusively
integrated into any application or framework that supports
[Connect](http://www.senchalabs.org/connect/)-style middleware, including
[Express](http://expressjs.com/).

## Installation

    $ npm install passport-http-token

## Usage

#### Configure Strategy

The HTTP Bearer authentication strategy authenticates users using a bearer
token.  The strategy requires a `validate` callback, which accepts that
credential and calls `done` providing a user.  Optional `info` can be passed,
typically including associated scope, which will be set by Passport at
`req.authInfo` to be used by later middleware for authorization and access
control.

    passport.use(new BearerStrategy(
      function(token, done) {
        User.findOne({ token: token }, function (err, user) {
          if (err) { return done(err); }
          if (!user) { return done(null, false); }
          return done(null, user, { scope: 'all' });
        });
      }
    ));

#### Authenticate Requests

Use `passport.authenticate()`, specifying the `'bearer'` strategy, to
authenticate requests.  Requests containing bearer tokens do not require session
support, so the `session` option can be set to `false`.

For example, as route middleware in an [Express](http://expressjs.com/)
application:

    app.get('/profile', 
      passport.authenticate('bearer', { session: false }),
      function(req, res) {
        res.json(req.user);
      });

## Implementation

This module is based on the HTTP-Bearer strategy by Jared Hanson, this is just my modifications to make tokens acceptable by HTTP Username, modelled on stripe.

## Examples

For a complete, working example, refer to the [Bearer example](https://github.com/jaredhanson/passport-http-bearer/tree/master/examples/bearer).

## Tests

    $ npm install --dev
    $ make test

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/jaredhanson/passport-http-bearer.png)](http://travis-ci.org/jaredhanson/passport-http-bearer)

## Credits

  - [Jared Hanson](http://github.com/jaredhanson)

## License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2011 Jared Hanson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
